Find me.
Once you have this.
6.
Members will generate the most revenues.
How do we do that?
What's the formula to calculate members
revenues, members generated revenues?
We take the bookings.
The bookings is where we have the number
of slots and what has been booked.
Exactly.
So then what we can do is to filter.
Persons who are not members.
There's actually only one person with who
is not a member.
It's the the member with ID zero.
It's guest, if you remember.
So we filter that that uh member ID and
then.
How do we compute the generated revenue?
We need to join on the facilities to get
the member cost,
to multiply the member cost by the number
of slots that we have booked for that
facility from the booking,
and then that gives me.
The revenue for one booking,
then I group by the member ID,
I do the sum and then I should have my
total revenue per member.
Then I organize by counts.
By the computed value descending and then
I have the top.
Easy, no?
Superb.
That's fine.
Hey.
OK.
That's OK.
So let's.
Let's start to see that.
To select.
From.
So the revenues they are in the the
central place is the booking.
I do not guess actually I just have a
look to my.
Database. This is what I get here.
Notation cross foot. OK,
if I want to have the link between
facilities where we have the member cost.
The slots and then the member details we
need to have.
The query over bookings because this is
the central table that allows me to go in
two directions. So select from bookings B.
What I want to have,
I want to have the bee dot slots.
The ideally what I would like to have is
the sum of slots times the facilities
that we don't have yet,
but the facility member cost.
I don't remember exactly the syntax.
It's all attached to member cost.
So that means that I need to do what I
need to do a.
In order to have this.
I don't have it in the bookings,
so I need to have a join.
Join.
Facilities on.
Be careful. If you miss that part,
you will have very weird results,
so don't mess with the quality.
It has to be clear because it goes very
fast to do something like this.
It's almost silent. It will fail,
but it's only a functional failure.
It's not a technical failure.
It will return results,
but results which are very bad because of
course it's not.
We are not talking about the same kind of
ideas.
So be careful about that.
Here it's a bit obvious that with the
stress and with the different tables,
names, etcetera,
it can be difficult to troubleshoot why
you have weird results.
So you join on facility,
you join facilities on.
Disk retire this condition and now you
have access to this.
Now what you would like to have is the
ability to group by the member names O
this is where you need to join members.
On M.
Memid = bmemid and now you have all the
member information as well O here you can
group by.
M.
Mem ID because you want the members who
generate the most revenue and that's
surname.
And here you will use that.
As the row titles.
So for each member ID and surname you
will display this.
Don't forget to exclude.
Don't forget to exclude the member ID
with 0,
the member ID 0 because this is guest.
You don't want guest to be into the list.
OK, we just miss another by.
And here apparently we have no tie,
so I'm not wrong.
Every number is different, huh?
So apparently this person is the one who
is the most.
Generating revenue into our club.
So you should be able to find that kind
of queries alone now because it's only
navigating with data and then grouping
back on the right gritter.
As promised, we can do a break, OK,
5 minutes, 510 minutes maximum,
the time you take a coffee or some water.
And then after that we start what I call
the data comp,
which is I provide you with a new
database. It's a bit like in the exam,
you have an unknown database,
you have to navigate through this
database.
And you have a list of queries for your
data extractions, OK.
Let's go in break and I'll provide the
dump just after the break.
It.
OK.
What?
Thanks. My query's kind of different.
It's different. Yes, this is what I have.
Ignoring the comments.
Yep, but we are.
You have still computed the wrong,
which is good. I didn't. OK, I have it.
But what counts is this,
and it's the formula which is here.
So I was trying to do something also to
see if I can.
Instead of do this,
be careful because this is not the
revenue that you have computed here.
This is the revenue rank because here it
can be a bit ambiguous.
Someone will read the query.
Here we have the impression that this is
the revenue, but it's not.
It's only the revenue rank.
Once you can display this quantity here
in uh as a column of your this something
like this.
Um, no, no, keep, keep revenue.
Then I'll do of revenue like this. No, no,
no, no, because you cannot.
What is here? What is in the over?
It's here you are having a quantity.
What you want to display is this right?
Yes,
but here in the over you are giving not
OK a quantity.
Or dot by something like will this work?
This this is better,
but it would not run because no,
because actually here it does not rely on
what has been computed before in the
query. Oh OK,
it has to be standalone you see.
So how do I if I you have to repeat in
the I have to repeat the repeat this
revenue and reference. Yeah, OK,
thank you.
Be careful here because you have a desk
in the middle that will break the query.
So here you have a new desk. Is it?
We want the user to spare that.
That has the highest number.
So the highest number should be the
lowest round. That's why I used this.
Yeah, I I I know. But here, I mean,
you have some desk in in the middle of
nowhere,
so it should be reintegrated here. OK.
Just your checks, right? Yeah, Yeah. OK.
Thank you. You're welcome. Yes,
let's make the the version with the rank
because that was the purpose.
Good.
Yeah, and still,
this is not maybe calling the tables of
the prefix N can we just? Yeah,
for example, like team user,
team customer, team booking.
There's much easier.
So we see the team people know exactly.
Yeah, but here you have 3 tables. Yeah,
but I'm saying instead of having that in
here B and we just call them probably C
booking,
probably C the T as in three fields. Hi,
you like.
Yeah, if you like, there's no I tried.
Here we are entering into what we call
the conventions and the conventions are
different from one company to another, so.
It's it's justified of course. Well,
I understand what you say and it could
match, but maybe not in.
So it depends so much. But for for me,
you do whatever you like. OK,
there's no whenever let's say for example
you provide the insert free for creating
the table, can we change and put it?
Of course, of course.
Of course,
do do what fits the best for you with
your usage, with your productivity,
and I I will not mind. No worries.
OK.
Yeah.
OK.
So practically here that could be a query
to see what you who you want to keep
absolutely in your club,
because of course those guys are
generating a lot of incomes for you.
So you don't want them to to leave?
The first one is.
What could be interesting once you have
identified that is to identify in the
breakdown what's the usage for each
member,
what's the facilities booking so that you
can adjust as well your offer to maybe do
something which would generate more
revenue because you see that the top.
uh The top usages maybe should be favored.
So if this guy wants more message,
maybe you should offer more message to
the the top three members regarding that.
Mm.
Thank you.
OK.
If you have in seven minutes.
Hmm.
OK.
So just one thing I I I'm going to fetch
a coffee,
but in the meantime you can load.
You can load the north winds.
Database.
That I just joined here.
OK guys,
so you have a new database to create and
a new SQL file to load exactly as in the
exam. You will have to do that.
So let's be in autonomy now.
You have the SQL for the dump.
You know normally how to load this on
your system and then on lecture 5.
You have on lecture 5.
This data extractions list.
That you can or you still find to extract
all those information OK.
That's it.
OK.
Thank you.
Yes.
No, no, I'm not. No, no,
because of the expectation. I mean,
it's really good. It's good.
No, no.
OK, I'm not.
We want to.
Was I?
So.
Yeah, that's.
I really.
OK.
I think that.
Thank you.
It's OK.
Is it loading?
What do we do to create a new database?
New North winds.
In the scripts we create a new folder.
North winds.
Let's copy paste.
OK.
OK,
so let's connect to this and to the new
database and let's execute everything as
great.
It says something about large scripts can
take some time. We don't care.
Includes the values, et cetera.
Normally you should get this at the end.
OK, updated rows 10,400, six 7576.
Then how to start the data extraction?
It's not possible if you don't know the
database, you cannot guess.
You have to analyze first.
You have to understand how to understand
the database.
Go on the north winds.
You have a look to the diagram.
You check the notation you prefer for us,
probably to be well.
That's a huge later, yeah.
I'm sorry for you.
You missed a very good lecture, actually.
OK,
so you see that we have way more tables.
This structure is more like what we will
have in the exam.
Like 15, around 15 tables,
different tables. OK,
of course you will have the database
before the exam.
During the vacations you will have that.
So you will spend a very nice Christmas.
Thinking at thinking at me and my
database and trying to do select instead
of being bored by all the the festivities
etcetera.
So on my side I will be working on
databases as well on Christmas.
It's so boring.
I'm joking of course.
So you will have the database.
You will have to load this before the
exam and to train as much as you can
before the exam.
So normally on the exam day you know
perfectly the database,
you know the tables, you know the columns,
you know the structure,
how to make the queries or what?
It's possible to be joined, etc.
It should not be a question.
It should have like reflexes. OK,
so here we have a database which is
composed of products.
Orders.
Customers,
so we understand that it is a retail.
It's a retail company database.
We have employees.
Employees are linked to orders,
orders to other details,
order details to products,
products to categories to suppliers.
We have some customers as well connected
to others.
And we have as well employees connected
to territories, connected to regions, etc.
OK,
so this is all what we have in this
database.
So now let's see the first question.
First question is the list of customers.
How do we do that? Select.
style from customers.
Mm-hmm. Select stuff from customers.
Very good.
Let's go on here. Let's open a new script.
Something that can be a bit shorter if
you have multiple files is to set your
database as default.
You can say see here set as default.
So everything that you will connect to
this connection will directly.
He tried to be executed against North.
Very important during the exam,
copy the question.
So that you can know even after what is
going with what.
So this is the list of customers.
OK, select Star.
From customers.
This is not a very good query here
because there's no order by. Yes,
you had a question.
Yep.
Yeah, it's.
Yeah, this is what I wanted to say.
Actually,
here we are missing three things.
The column details,
what has to be selected, the order.
Here we have defined arbitrarily on
ourselves what is what should be the
other and the limits the number of rules
we want to return in the exam.
For each question it will be stated the
column selection, the order and.
The limits the number of rows that is
expected. Yeah.
Yes, this is not. This is too ambiguous.
I agree.
OK.
Yeah,
actually a lot of answers are acceptable
because the the question is very vague
here.
But in the exam what I wanted to say is
that it will be way more precise plus you
will have the screenshot of the expected
result.
So normally you cannot miss the target.
Yeah.
Exactly. Yeah. So very,
very interesting notice. Have a look here.
If for instance,
what is important is to have the contact
name.
K and in the list it is.
Like this.
You cannot cannot have the full mark if
the column name doesn't match exactly
what is in the screenshot. OK,
but it will be said select contact name
as it would be said I mean in the
question.
You will have to provide as an output the
column contact name renamed as contact.
OK,
and if it is not stated then you have to
match the screenshot makes is the ground
truth because I will compare the
screenshot is actually my my own answer.
OK and so you will have to match my own
answer.
OK,
so if it is something is not clear in the
statement in the title of the question,
then you can refer to the screenshot to
match the screenshot.
But normally I paid a very.
Find attention to the statements to the
requirements so that it is clear for you
the number of different products.
How do we do that?
Select.
Stop.
Like this?
Yeah, can can work. That can work,
but maybe that's not.
Or maybe we should verify something
because here it said number of different
different products,
not only number of products,
number of different products,
maybe inferring that we could have
duplicates.
So how can we make sure there's no
duplicates here?
On the based on the name.
You see just one tip.
Here you see that I do not have any
completion.
So what I suggest is that you start with
the from and then you you have completion
based on what you have selected in the
from.
So in the way you write your queries,
what I would do is to do select from then
your your table and then what you want to
do with.
That and here we want to identify if
there's.
Still the same number.
Of different product names and actually
this is true. OK,
so there's no duplicate regarding the
name.
The council of employees.
It.
Same.
Same as the what we have in two,
but this time it's from employees.
Then the four I will let you do.
I'll let you think a bit on the form,
not not that you have been warmed up a
little bit. Think about the form,
where to find the data, where and.
Chip.
Like this?
I will send the file on by the way.
The.
If one comes here, it's not arrived.
Yeah.
Mhm.
So how do we find the information to
compute a revenue?
Let's have a look to database. No,
nothing can be guessed.
You have to to find your.
In other details we have unit price,
quantity and discount.
So normally we should be able to build if
we sum everything here.
we should be able to to build the total
overall revenue, whatever the dates,
constraints here, we can generate this.
So how do we build the formula now?
So as I said,
we should do select from other details.
And then what's the formula?
It will be a sum, it's true, of what?
OD dot.
Unit price times.
So this is the the rule price.
We need to subtract the discount which is
a ercentage as well.
O we need to do OD discounts times.
But because I look at the data,
because I looked at the data,
I know I know the database,
but it's it's a good thing to to find.
data,
and we see that the discount is never
above one. It's .25, .1, .2.
You see that here we have decimal
rounding issues,
but we have never normally, we have never
Above one, so it's a percentage.
So it's minus discount times unit price
and quantity.
And normally you are super good at
mathematics, right? Yes. OK, good.
So we can optimize a bit.
We can reduce a bit that expression.
Can we reduce a bit that expression?
If I ask the question, the answer is yes,
yes we can.
We can can we reduce this expression
because it's a bit long?
Times.
Like this.
Does that work like this?
The answer is yes.
Thank you.
Works.
Let's see. Huh?
It's changing the value, no?
Maybe what can happen is rounding issues.
Welcome.
That was my only.
Same one.
Hopefully,
but it's true that sometimes you can have
some some slight difference at the ends
of the decimal due to rounding issues and
in the way the engine is processing the
values, maybe not in the same orders.
Always.
OK, so this and that are strictly current.
Let's stay.
Let's stay with the short version.
OK guys, understood.
Goods.
A bit harder now,
the total revenue for one specific year.
I'm not sure you are talking about the
question five. Am I wrong?
There's a what?
There's not a revenue table,
but we have just computed here what
should be the revenue.
And now we need to make it organized per
year.
Yeah.
Yes, because.
We need to join because we do not have
any dates information in orders order
details.
In order details we have nothing but in
orders we have the order dates.
Let's have a look from what table should
we fetch?
From order, Are you sure?
So OK,
let me let's let me know about your
strategy and then I will compare with
yours.
Yeah.
Yes, but we don't need 2 sub selects here.
2 selects we can one with one it works.
It's only that it's true that we need to
join at some point. We need to join what?
What to what?
But from where?
Yes,
we we keep other details as the primary
table and for each other detail we have
one single order which is very good for
us because it means that we do not
multiply,
we do not have any combinatory problem.
Remember the problem with if you do the
reverse here,
if you select orders and then you join on
on order details for each order line,
you will create duplicates here because
there are several other details for one
single order.
What's an order detail?
It's actually the sub,
the component of an order.
So for instance, if you're on Amazon,
you buy three products,
you will have three order details entries
for one big order. You see the point.
Yes, so one order can be projected,
uh can be decomposed,
broke down into three or more order
details.
So that's not good to to fetch from
orders because we will have this problem.
It's visible here, it's multiple.
So the the good thing is to keep with
other details,
join on on on orders and extract the
other dates.
If you remember,
we have seen date functions.
Very quickly,
but we have introduced it and among the
date functions there were there was the
year function.
So the year function will extract only
the year components of a date.
So if you apply year on all the dates,
you will extract only the year.
It's it's not a cast, it's an extraction.
It will return the year as a as a number.
OK, for instance,
here we can have the database or the
dates are from 1996 to 1998.
So we can have 1996, 1998 or 1990,
1997 and then 1998, OK.
So then you will have to extract for one
specific year,
so with the where clause or with the.
How can we have the revenue per year?
Reserve.
Yes.
With a with a group by, we can have the.
If we group by year,
we'll have not only for one specific year,
but for all the years.
So that's more that that's more
interesting maybe to have this than to
have a fixed where close with only one
year selected. OK for a specific year,
but you have two ways to do that.
Either you use the group by as an
intermediate and then you do you do a
work close or you have you fix one
specific year. OK,
but the more natural way would be to use
a group by because by advance you don't
know the range of dates that you can have,
so you cannot have.
You cannot see even what specific year
you would like to to extract because you
don't know in advance what specific years
you have in this database. OK,
so the most natural way would be to do a
a group by year and then to see what you
want to select.
OK.
Do one or the other. I don't mind.
Just try.
Oh.
You mean in the exam? In the exam, yes,
it would be for year, for instance,
for year 1996.
Yep. Equal. Yeah.
Exactly.
Well, that this is, well, right,
one specific year.
Alright, for all the, yeah, for each year.
But that's no worries about that because
really in the exam it will be like guided
100%.
You will have normally no question about
what should be the output because you
will have the output as a as a as an
example, OK.
Mm-hmm. If there was.
Yes,
but you can use between or the dates
subtract.
But here I can tell you in the exam there
will be no date range.
I'm not done yet with the preparation,
but it's not in my my objectives.
OK, so
Yes.
Mhm.
But not in the group by,
not in the other by, yes,
but not in the group by.
But because this is another computation,
yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
And the group by is is computed before
the select.
uh Same kind of problem, yes.
Yeah So only that the wrong it's not a
problem,
since you until you want to use it in the
WHERE clause. Remember it's FROM,
WHERE and then SELECT.
OK,
and the group by is before the where
actually.
So you will have from group by where and
then select.
So This is why you cannot use what you
have defined in the select in the group
by because it's something different.
It's not step,
it's not processed at the same time.
It's in the. It's a select function,
so it's at at the end, yeah.
Yeah.
O Let's start with what we have already.
So select.
No, no, no, no.
As revenue from all the details. OK,
so that's the base stuff.
Now we we need to have.
Some dates related elements so we can do
left join orders on.
Be very careful here to match the exact
same concept. If you don't,
then you will have unpredictable results.
Left join orders on that condition.
And then we want to let's use the group
by fashion group by year of four dots for
the dates. Pay attention now because.
The revenue you don't know if it is
linked to the order date or to the
shipped date,
which can be different because there can
be a difference between the order dates
and the shipped.
The shipment date.
If you have a shipment date which is in
the next year,
it can change a lot your computation,
so be careful how to know that you have
to ask.
You have to ask to the business domain
experts.
We grou by that,
so if we grou by that then it means that
we need to put it in the column in the
row title.
And then we can order by.
Yeah.
Here the other by I can use the year that
I've defined here because the other by is
after the select.
So this is the breakdown of the overall
revenue per year.
So at least now I know that there's 1996.
I could have used another strategy as
well to say select distinct.
Yeah.
And here it gives me only the different
years. OK,
you see that there's a very close
relationship between group by and
distinct,
because if you notice what we have here
is nothing more than.
Nothing different from what we have in
the distinct. Why is that?
Because we use the same key to group here.
We use those unique values in order to
group the values by those keys.
So if you want to have only,
let's say the column type, the row titles,
you can use a distinct with the same.
Arguments as the group by and you will
have the only the unique values.
OK.
Now if you want to have.
OK.
This is for one specific year.
This is the list of the different years
and this is the revenue per year.
So difference.
Ways to reach the same results.
The only thing is that this one is way
more portable because you can reuse.
Of course,
if you need to move from 1996 to 1997,
you don't have to rewrite the whole query.
Very good.
OK, guys,
let's do the attendance and we will be
done for today. Next time what we will do,
we'll continue that set of data
extractions a bit on the same format.
You work a little bit.
I'm proposing a solution.
You ask me questions, we will discuss.
And we move to the next question so that
I think doing that you will practice,
you will be more prepared and you will
reach the the level I want you to have.
Yes, I know what that means.
Yes.
Yeah.
Here you are.
Aravind.
Aryans.
You would I yeah.
Are you sure?
A month.
Hakeem, Isabel, Janice, Choadi,
Khalid.
Sure, Mohammed.
The shops.
Same for Muhammad.
Mohsin.
Navin.
Muhammad sure Muhammad Danish.
Obaid.
Achin.
Soup.
And are you low? Are you?
They are.
Sir, I am also present.
Yeah.
Thank you.